DOCSP-41141: Indexes (#13)
mongodb/docs-kotlin-sync: source/indexes.txt

.. _kotlin-sync-indexes:

=============================
Optimize Queries with Indexes
=============================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference
 
.. meta::
   :description: Learn how to use indexes with the MongoDB {+driver-short+} driver.
   :keywords: query, optimization, efficiency, usage example, code example

.. TODO
.. .. toctree::
..    :titlesonly:
..    :maxdepth: 1

..    /work-with-indexes

Overview
--------

> On this page, you can see copyable code examples that show how to work with common
> types of indexes that you can use with the {+driver-short+}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On this page, you can see copyable code examples that show how to manage different
types of indexes by using the {+driver-short+}.
```

------------------

The following example creates an ascending index on the specified field:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/index-code-examples.kt
   :start-after: start-single-field
   :end-before: end-single-field
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

.. TODO: To learn more about single field indexes, see the
.. :ref:`kotlin-sync-single-field-index` guide.

Compound Index
--------------

The following example creates a compound index on the specified fields:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/index-code-examples.kt
   :start-after: start-compound
   :end-before: end-compound
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

.. TODO: To learn more about compound indexes, see the :ref:`kotlin-sync-compound-index`
.. guide.

Multikey Index
--------------

The following example creates a multikey index on the specified field that contains
array values:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/index-code-examples.kt
   :start-after: start-multikey
   :end-before: end-multikey
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

.. TODO To learn more about multikey indexes, see the :ref:`kotlin-sync-multikey-index`
.. guide.

Atlas Search Index

> ------------------

Reviewer: S: This section could be called Atlas Search Index Management

> ------------------

Reviewer: Q: what is the rationale to have this section in this location in the TOC?

Author: The honest answer is that I just grabbed the format from Pymongo's equivalent. I reached out to Jordan and he mentioned his placement was based on the [Java](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/java/sync/current/fundamentals/indexes/) page.

Do you have strong feelings about shifting the section up or down?

Reviewer: I dont have strong feelings, but i would suggest moving the section to the end of the list of index types as this is a separate index category with different methods

> 

Reviewer: S: add a quick intro sentence
"The following sections describe how to manage Atlas Search indexes.."

.. TODO: To learn more about Atlas search indexes, see the :ref:`kotlin-sync-atlas-search-index`
.. guide.

Create Search Index
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following example creates an Atlas search index on the specified field:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/index-code-examples.kt
   :start-after: start-search-create
   :end-before: end-search-create
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

.. TODO: To learn more about creating serach indexes, see the :ref:`kotlin-sync-atlas-search-index-create`
.. guide.

List Search Indexes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following example prints a list of Atlas search indexes in the specified collection:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/index-code-examples.kt
   :start-after: start-search-list
   :end-before: end-search-list
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

.. TODO: To learn more about listing search indexes, see the :ref:`kotlin-sync-atlas-search-index-list`
.. guide.

Update Search Indexes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The following example updates an existing Atlas search index:

Reviewer: S: describe the update
```suggestion
The following example updates an existing Atlas search index to ...:
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/index-code-examples.kt
   :start-after: start-search-update
   :end-before: end-search-update
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

.. TODO: To learn more about updating search indexes, see the :ref:`kotlin-sync-atlas-search-index-update`
.. guide.

Delete Search Indexes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following example deletes an Atlas search index with the specified name:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/index-code-examples.kt
   :start-after: start-search-delete
   :end-before: end-search-delete
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

.. TODO: To learn more about deleting search indexes, see the :ref:`kotlin-sync-atlas-search-index-drop`
.. guide.

Text Index
----------

> The following example creates a text index on the specified field:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example creates a text index on the specified string field:
```

.. guide.

Unique Index
------------

The following example creates a unique index on the specified field:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/index-code-examples.kt
   :start-after: start-unique
   :end-before: end-unique
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

.. TODO: To learn more about unique indexes, see the :ref:`kotlin-sync-unique-index`
.. guide.

Wildcard Index
--------------

The following example creates a wildcard index in the specified collection:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/index-code-examples.kt
   :start-after: start-wildcard
   :end-before: end-wildcard
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

.. TODO: To learn more about wildcard indexes, see the :ref:`kotlin-sync-wildcard-index`
.. guide.

Clustered Index
---------------

The following example creates a new collection with a clustered index on the ``_id``
field:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/usage-examples/index-code-examples.kt
   :start-after: start-clustered
   :end-before: end-clustered
   :language: kotlin
   :copyable:
   :dedent:

.. TODO: To learn more about wildcard indexes, see the :ref:`kotlin-sync-clustered-index`
.. guide.

> Remove an Index

Reviewer: S: to match search indexes heading
```suggestion
Delete an Index
```
